<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="logical_truth_and_falsity">
    <title>Logical Truth</title>
    <shortdesc></shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <p>Logical truth: A sentence is logically true iff it is not possible for it to be
            false.</p>
        <p>Logical falsity: A sentence is logically false iff it is not possible for it to be
            true.</p>
        <p>Logical Indeterminacy: A sentence is logically indeterminate iff it is nether logically
            true nor logically false.</p>
        <p>Logical equivalency: Two sentences are logically equivalent iff it is not possible for
            one to be true and the other false. </p>
        <p/>
        <p>A set of sentences is consistent iff all of the sentences in that set are true.</p>
        <p/>
        <p>True sentences have a truth-value of T. This is distinct from “truth functionally
            true"</p>
        <p>False sentences have a truth-value of F. This is distinct from “truth functionally
            false”</p>
        <p/>
        <p>Sentences that are neither true nor false do not have a truth value, but this is not the
            same as sentences that are “truth functionally indeterminate”</p>
        <p>The inability to know whether a sentence is T or F does not change that it is T or F</p>
        <p>Every sentence that has a truth value is either logically true or logically false.</p>
        <p>Not all sentences are either logically true or logically false.</p>
        <p>For example: Joseph cared for the children of Heinrich. Heinrich's children were cared
            for by Joseph. It is not possible for one to be true while the other is false; we could
            replace one with the other and the meaning would not be changed. </p>
        <p>Every sentence is identical with itself. This seems simple and obvious enough, but keep
            this in mind; it will be helpful later.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
