<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="types_of_logic">
    <title>Types of Logic</title>
    <shortdesc>An overview and examples of different types of logic, including propositional logic, predicate logic, and modal logic.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section>
            <title>Introduction</title>
            <p>Logic is central to the process of reasoning. We use logic to help us form, evaluate,
                and draw conclusions about <keyword>arguments</keyword>. There are several
                types of logic, each with its own purposes and applications. I will briefly
                cover three types of logic: <ul>
                    <li>Propositional Logic</li>
                    <li>Predicate Logic</li>
                    <li>Modal Logic</li>
                </ul></p>
        </section>
<!-- BREAK -->
        <section>
            <title>Propositional Logic</title>
            <!-- EDIT I dont like "deals with" and "dealing with" -->
            <p>Propositonal logic (aka Sentential Logic) *deals with* propositions and the relationship between propositions.
            In propsitional logic, we translate natural lause operators and sentence symbols to translate</p>
        </section>
        <example>
            <ol>
            <li>The dog is red and brown.
                <p>r = The dog is red. b = The dog is brown.</p>r ∧ b </li>
            <li>All dogs are either mammals or animals.
            <p> m = all dogs are mammals. a = all dogs are animals.</p>
            m ∨ a </li></ol></example>
<!-- BREAK -->
        <section>
            <title>Predicate Logic</title>
            <p>Predicate logic (aka Predicate Calculus) expands on propositional logic by *dealing with* predicates and quantifiers. </p>
        </section>
        <example> Examples
            <ol>
                <li>The dog is red and brown.
                    <p>R = is red, B = is brown, d = the dog</p>
                    Rd ∧ Bd <p>Read: "The dog is red, and the dog is brown."</p></li>
                <li>The dog is red and brown. 
                    <p>R = is red, B = is brown, D = is a dog</p>
                    ∃x (Dx ∧
                    (Rx ∧ Bx)) <p>Read: "There exists some x, such that x is a dog, and x is red,
                        and x is brown."</p></li>
                <li>All dogs are mammals. <p> M = is a mammal, D = is a dog</p> ∀x (Dx ⊃ Mx)<p>Read:
                        "For all things that exist, if x is a dog, then x is a mammal or x is an
                        animal." You may wonder where how we can get away with adding the
                        conditional words "if" and "then." The reason for the conditional will be
                        explained later.</p></li></ol></example>
        <!-- BREAK -->
        <section>
            <title>Modal Logic</title>
        </section>
        <example> Examples
            <ol>
                <li>If Helga might bring her dog, then Hans will definitly stay home.
                    <p>D = Helga might bring her dog, S = Hans will definitely stay home</p>
                    ∀x (◇ Px ⊃ □ (Ph ⊃ Ch))
                    <p>Read: "If it is possible that Helga will bring her dog, that Hans will necessarily stay home."</p></li>
                <li>Of all the people who might be at the party, Herman would definitely be the coolest.
                    <p>D = Helga might bring her dog, S = Hans will definitely stay home</p>
                    ◇D ⊃ □S
                    <p>Read: "If it is possible that Helga will bring her dog, that Hans will necessarily stay home."</p></li></ol></example>
        
        <!-- <section>
            <title></title>
        </section>
        <example></example> -->
        
    </conbody>
</concept>

<!-- 
    ¬ negation
    ∧ conjunction
    ∨ disjunction
    ⊃ conditional (i.e.,implication or material implication)
    ≡ bi-conditional (i.e., necessary and sufficient condition, logical equivalance, iff (if and only if)) 
    ∃ existential quantifier
    ∀ universal quantifier
    ◇ possible
    □ necessary
-->